- [Instructor] Let's set up our labs so that we can do
some development on the Landon Hotel app.
We'll be doing all of our work within the virtual machine
that we provisioned with Vagrant.
To log in, just click on the Vagrant user
and then, use the password Vagrant.
Inside of the lab, you'll find that the exercise files
for the course have been placed on the desktop.
This directory contains the source code for each of the
microservices that we'll use within the Landon Hotel app.
Let's go ahead and import these projects into Eclipse,
which is also included on the desktop.
Just double-click on the Eclipse folder,
and then, click on this icon to launch the IDE.
Once Eclipse launches, you can import the projects
by going to File, then Import,
and scrolling down within this dialog where you'll find
the Import existing Maven projects option.
Select that and hit Next.
This will open another dialogue where we can
navigate to our exercise files directory.
So click on Browse,
and then, locate the exercise files directory.
You'll notice it already took me there.
Once you've found it, just go ahead and click on Open,
and then, you'll notice that Eclipse
pulls in our different Maven projects that it found
within this directory.
That includes the booking service and the hotel web app.
You'll see that the guest service
and the room service are missing.
That's because they're works in progress
that we'll build and deliver throughout the course.
So for now, just go ahead and click on Finish
to import these two projects.
If we look at the structure of these two projects,
we can tell that they're built with Maven.
That's because they have a pom.xml file
right within their root directory.
Let's take a peek at their configuration
and open up the POM.
The first thing I'll point out about the project
is that it uses Spring,
and I can tell that by the Spring Boot starter parent POM,
which is used by Spring Boot to quickly get us
up and running with the Spring framework.
If we navigate to the dependency hierarchy,
we can see some of the other Spring projects
that are included in this project.
So there you see Spring Data and Spring Webflux.
You'll also notice that
an embedded Tomcat servlet container is included.
We'll use this to run our web application.
Now I want to call your attention
to one more important dependency.
That's the Spring Boot auto configure dependency.
It's used by Spring Boot to automatically provide
some default configuration for the projects
that it detects on our class path.
If we want to see a little bit more about how this works,
let's click on the Overview tab, and from here,
we can see the Spring Boot starter parent POM
by clicking on this button.
You'll notice that the Spring Boot starter parent POM
includes its own parent POM.
And if we want to see the full configuration of both POMs,
we can click on the Effective POM tab.
Now, as we scroll down in this file,
you'll start to notice all these different versions
for different libraries that we might include
within a Spring project.
Let's talk a little bit about what this does for us.
So let's say that you wanted to use Spring Data.
By default, Spring Boot is going to provide the version
that is compatible with the other libraries
that it specifies.
So you don't have to worry exactly about what version
of Hibernate to include in your project.
Spring Boot resolves those compatibility issues
between the versions for you.
By default, Spring Boot packages our applications
into an executable JAR that uses an embedded server.
If we take a look at our hotel web app application class,
located in the com.linkedin.javacd package,
we can see a little bit about how this works.
You'll notice the Spring Boot application annotation
on this class.
This indicates the Spring Boot.
It's where the main method is located
that will launch our application.
And this spins up the web server.
It's just a plain old Java class,
so we can right click on it, go to Run as,
and then, Java application to start it.
This will cause Eclipse to start to launch the app.
Now the application will have a problem initially.
It's going to attempt to bind to Port 8080,
and something else on the virtual machine
is already bound there, so we have a port conflict.
Within Spring Boot, we can use a local profile
to resolve this problem.
So inside of the source main resources directory,
you'll notice these two files,
application.properties and application-local.properties.
The application.properties file is where we specify
different configuration properties for our app.
If we want to add a different configuration profile,
we just add a suffix and here it's dash local.
Let's open that up.
Inside of this file you'll see that I've provided
a different port configuration for our local profile.
If we want to apply this profile when we run the app,
we can go into the run configurations for Eclipse.
Just click on Run, then go to Run configurations,
and this dialog will open.
Here we see the run configuration for the application.
We can adjust the profile it uses
by clicking on the Arguments tab.
Here I'm going to provide a VM argument.
To do this, we specified dash D
then the name of the argument,
which is going to be spring.profiles.active,
then just use the equal sign
and provide the name of the profile,
which in this case is local.
Once you have that in place,
go ahead and run the application.
There we see the app spinning up,
and I'm going to start to open up a browser
so that we can hit it once it's launched.
Inside the browser, just specify the local host
in the URL bar and hit it on Port 8884.
There we see the web application.
Okay, let's go ahead and we'll run the booking service.
So I'll just navigate into the directory.
And then, within the com.linkedin.javacd package,
I'm going to go ahead and run this application
as a Java app.
This will build the initial run configuration,
and then, I'll need to adjust it.
Okay, here we can see we got the problem.
Now let's go to the Run configurations.
Then, I'm going to select
the Booking service application run configuration,
click on the Arguments tab,
and then, provide the argument to specify our profile.
Okay, that should do it.
Let's go ahead and run the app.
Now the service is spinning up,
and if we refresh the application within the browser,
we start to see information come in from
the booking service.
So it was much easier to get this app up and running
compared to how we might have done it 10 years ago.
The key ingredients that made our developer workflow
such a nice experience were Spring Boot and Maven.